Ruchi (#53)
moja-global/community-website: website/blog/2021-07-29-Introduction to Flint.md

---

> slug: intro to flint

Reviewer: This is a wrong slug. Read about how slugs are formatted [here](https://docusaurus.io/docs/docs-introduction)

> title: Introduction to FLINT

Reviewer: Use full-forms. Use `Full Lands Integration Tool (FLINT)`

author: Ruchi Pakhle
author_url: https://github.com/Ruchip16

> author_title: Passionate programmer, coder & a web-developer 

Reviewer: Can we use a better author title here. Maybe an affiliation with the moja global community rather than being ambiguous :smile:

Author: Sure! I will change that

> tags: [Intro to Flint, docusaurus]

Reviewer: Keep tags as `[flint, moja-global]`. 

@aornugent can you suggest some more for the target audience?

description: Introduction to Flint
---
<!-- Summary -->

> **The Full Lands Integration Tool (FLINT)** is moja global’s flagship software. FLINT is a modular and highly flexible open-source software technology designed to meet the needs of governments, the private sector and other users in measuring, reporting and verifying (MRV) – or forecasting – greenhouse gas emissions and removals from forestry, agriculture and other land uses (AFOLU).

Reviewer: This section is directly adopted from the website [here](https://moja.global/flint/). Please re-word.

 
<!--truncate-->

> ### What is FLINT?

Reviewer: Give a line break

> FLINT stands for (Full Lands Integration Tool) which is a C++ framework that combines the data acquired from the satellites & ground in a way that meets the requirements of the policy. FLINT is an *open-source library* maintained under **moja-global**, a project under the **LINUX Foundation** 

Reviewer: This section is directly adopted from the repo [here](https://github.com/moja-global/FLINT#what-is-flint). Please re-word.

> FLINT stands for (Full Lands Integration Tool) which is a C++ framework that combines the data acquired from the satellites & ground in a way that it meets the reqiurements of the policy. FLINT is an *open-source library* maintained under **moja-global**, a project under the **LINUX Foundation** 

Reviewer 2: Fix Spelling & Grammar

```suggestion
FLINT stands for (Full Lands Integration Tool) which is a C++ framework that combines the data acquired from the satellites & ground in a way that meets the requirements of the policy. FLINT is an *open-source library* maintained under **moja-global**, a project under the **LINUX Foundation** 
```

> ### Why FLINT?

Reviewer: Give a line break

> FLINT enables all countries to develop and operate advanced systems. It is based on more than 20 years of experience in building and operating integrated tools in Australia and Canada. It is a universal platform with a modular structure, allowing countries to attach any kind of models or data to build a country-specific system. The platform handles complex computer science tasks, such as storing and processing large data sets, allowing users to focus on monitoring, reporting, and scenario analysis.

Reviewer 3: Hey @Ruchip16 - great work! 

Can we add some more context to this paragraph:
> FLINT enables all countries to develop and operate advanced systems for monitoring land use and land-use change. It is based on more than 20 years of experience in building and operating integrated tools for national greenhouse-gas (GHG) invenotries in Australia and Canada. The FLINT is a universal platform with a modular structure, allowing countries to attach any kind of models or data to build a country-specific system. The platform handles complex computer science tasks, such as storing and processing large data sets, allowing users to focus on monitoring, reporting, and scenario analysis.

Author: Sure! Can you give me some points so that I can elaborate on them

Reviewer 3: I have made some changes to the quoted text in my comment. You can just copy and paste it!

Author: Cool! Thank you :)

### What distinguishes FLINT from other integrating tools?
FLINT integrates data from remote sensing, ground observations, and other sources to estimate fluxes and stocks of greenhouse gasses in different pools consistent with the guidance from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).

FLINT is using the lessons learned from the first generation of tools to build a new framework that meets current and future needs. Compared with the first-generation tools, the main improvements include:

- A flexible and modular approach that allows specific countries from IPCC Tier 1 to 3 to implement a comprehensive, sample-based, jurisdictional, and supply chain-based approach.
- The ability to cover all land uses and land-use changes, and activity-based reporting such as REDD+.
- Scenario analysis systems to allow the development of projections.
- Potential for a variety of other purposes, including economics, water, and biodiversity.
- Development is managed using a true open-source approach under moja global, which will allow users (countries, companies, and organizations) to direct strategy and control the budget.

> - Software that allows data processing on local desktops or cloud-based systems.

Reviewer: Taken directly from [here](https://github.com/moja-global/FLINT#how-is-flint-different-from-earlier-integrating-tools).

```
3] **Install Moja Libraries** 

The Visual Studio moja solution can be used to install compiled versions of the Moja libraries. Set the CMAKE variable **'CMAKE INSTALL PREFIX'** to your installation path (for example, *"C:/Development/Software/moja"* ).

4] Using CMake, make changes to the Visual Studio Solution.

- Open the CMake graphical user interface.
- Click **"Browse Build..."** and select the folder you created previously (i.e. ```C:Developmentmoja-globalFLINTSourcebuild``` in the **"Where to build the binaries"** area) 
- If the 'Where is the source code:' field does not update, make the necessary changes.
- You should now be able to update any CMake settings (for example, ENABLE flags like ENABLE TESTS), then click **“Configure”** - there should be no issues presuming all libraries and essential software have been installed. 
- Now click **"Generate,"** and the Solution should be ready to load into Visual Studio with the changes.

> ### Other Useful Tools :

Reviewer 3: @sarthakkundra - when we have a a blog on the FLINTexample analysis it'd be great to add a  'Next steps' section at the end that links to what to do after installation.

Author: Okay I will add the next steps on how to install the other useful tools

Reviewer 3: No need @ruchip16 - I was only alerting @sarthakkundra to a potential future improvement. Your work so far is great!

Author: Okay, thank you!
